=head1 NAME

tdsql - run SQL queries against a Teradata data warehouse server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  % tdsql [-h] [-H host] [-u user] [-p pass] [-o file] [-f format] [sql] [args]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program runs an SQL query against the Teradata data warehouse, and
then sends the output of the query either to stdout, or to an output
file. The SQL can be provided on the command line, or to stdin. Database
credentials can be provided on the command line, or in the
initialization file F<~/.tdsqlrc>.

=head2 Command-Line Options

The following optional command-line arguments are accepted:

=over 4

=item C<-h>, C<--help>

Display command line help and exit.

=item C<-H> I<host>, C<--hostname=>I<host>

Connect to this hostname (default localhost).

=item C<-u> I<user>, C<--username=>I<user>

Connect with this username (default your Unix username).

=item C<-p> I<pass>, C<--password=>I<pass>

Connect with this password (default is to prompt interactively for one).

=item C<-o> I<file>, C<--output=>I<file>

Write output to this file (default is to write to stdout).

=item C<-f> I<format>, C<--format=>I<format>

Write output in C<text> (tab-separated, the default), C<csv>
(comma-separated), or C<box> pretty-printed boxed format (this is the
slowest output format, as all output must be buffered before any output
is printed).

=back

The last optional command line arguments are the SQL to run, as a single
string; and any arguments to pass to the SQL, if the SQL contains
question mark (C<?>) positional placeholders. The default is to prompt
for SQL interactively using a command line prompt, if stdin is a tty, or
read stdin as verbatim SQL, if stdin is not a tty.

=head2 Initialization File

This script looks for a file C<~/.tdsqlrc> which is a file in YAML format
that has the following structure (all contents optional):

  hostname: I<host>
  username: I<user>
  password: I<pass>

If the file is present, then any provided values are used as the default
values for hostname, username, and password. This means you can avoid
needing to continually repeat these from the command line. Note that if
you record your password here, you should make sure the file has safe
permissions (C<chmod 600 ~/.tdsqlrc>).

=head1 INSTALLATION

You can install this software simply by moving the F<bin/tdsql> program
into your PATH (for example, in F</usr/local/bin>), and the man page in
F<share/man/man1/tdsql.1> into your MANPATH (for example, in
F</usr/local/share/man/man1>).

This software requires Perl (it is tested with Perl 5.12.3), and the
following CPAN modules:

=over 4

=item DBI

=item Term::ReadKey

=item Term::ReadLine::Gnu

=item Text::CSV_XS

=back

It also relies on the DBD::Teradata module available here:
L<http://www.presicient.com/tdatdbd/>

=head1 EXAMPLES

  % tdsql -H td -u johndoe

  % echo 'SELECT col1, col2 FROM db1.table1' | tdsql -H td -u johndoe

  % tdsql -o output.txt 'SELECT col1, col2 FROM db1.table1'

  % tdsql -f box 'SELECT col1, col2 FROM db1.table1 WHERE col1 = ?' 'val1'

=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew Ho E<lt>F<ho@groupon.com>E<gt>

=head1 LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2012, Groupon, Inc.
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
  met:

  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  Neither the name of GROUPON nor the names of its contributors may be
  used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
  specific prior written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

